[原文](https://github.com/python/peps/blob/master/pep-0396.txt)

Title: Module Version Numbers
Version: $Revision: 65628 $
Last-Modified: $Date: 2008-08-10 09:59:20 -0400 (Sun, 10 Aug 2008) $
Author: Barry Warsaw <barry@python.org>
Status: Deferred
Type: Informational
Content-Type: text/x-rst
Created: 2011-03-16
Post-History: 2011-04-05


概要
========

鉴于为Python模块指定版本号是有用和常见的，并且由于在Python社区中不同的方法已经有所增长，因此为模块作者制定标准约定是有用的，以便参考和参考。该信息性PEP描述了对于想要定义Python模块版本号的Python模块作者的最佳实践 。

符合此PEP是可选的，但其他Python工具（如`distutils2`[^1]））可能会适应于使用这里定义的约定。

PEP Deferral
============

Further exploration of the concepts covered in this PEP has been deferredfor lack of a current champion interested in promoting the goals of the PEPand collecting and incorporating feedback, and with sufficient availabletime to do so effectively.

User Stories
============

Alice is writing a new module, called ``alice``, which she wants toshare with other Python developers.  ``alice`` is a simple module andlives in one file, ``alice.py``.  Alice wants to specify a versionnumber so that her users can tell which version they are using.Because her module lives entirely in one file, she wants to add theversion number to that file.

Bob has written a module called ``bob`` which he has shared with manyusers.  ``bob.py`` contains a version number for the convenience ofhis users.  Bob learns about the Cheeseshop [2]_, and adds some simplepackaging using classic distutils so that he can upload *The BobBundle* to the Cheeseshop.  Because ``bob.py`` already specifies aversion number which his users can access programmatically, he wantsthe same API to continue to work even though his users now get it fromthe Cheeseshop.

Carol maintains several namespace packages, each of which areindependently developed and distributed.  In order for her users toproperly specify dependencies on the right versions of her packages,she specifies the version numbers in the namespace package's``setup.py`` file.  Because Carol wants to have to update one versionnumber per package, she specifies the version number in her module andhas the ``setup.py`` extract the module version number when she buildsthe *sdist* archive.

David maintains a package in the standard library, and also producesstandalone versions for other versions of Python.  The standardlibrary copy defines the version number in the module, and this sameversion number is used for the standalone distributions as well.


Rationale
=========

Python modules, both in the standard library and available from thirdparties, have long included version numbers.  There are establishedde facto standards for describing version numbers, and many ad-hocways have grown organically over the years.  Often, version numberscan be retrieved from a module programmatically, by importing themodule and inspecting an attribute.  Classic Python distutils``setup()`` functions [3]_ describe a ``version`` argument where therelease's version number can be specified.  PEP 8 [4]_ describes theuse of a module attribute called ``__version__`` for recording"Subversion, CVS, or RCS" version strings using keyword expansion.  Inthe PEP author's own email archives, the earliest example of the useof an ``__version__`` module attribute by independent moduledevelopers dates back to 1995.

Another example of version information is the sqlite3 [5]_ modulewith its ``sqlite_version_info``, ``version``, and ``version_info``attributes.  It may not be immediately obvious which attributecontains a version number for the module, and which contains a versionnumber for the underlying SQLite3 library.

This informational PEP codifies established practice, and recommendsstandard ways of describing module version numbers, along with someuse cases for when -- and when *not* -- to include them.  Its adoptionby module authors is purely voluntary; packaging tools in the standardlibrary will provide optional support for the standards definedherein, and other tools in the Python universe may comply as well.


Specification
=============

#. In general, modules in the standard library SHOULD NOT have version
   numbers.  They implicitly carry the version number of the Python
   release they are included in.

#. On a case-by-case basis, standard library modules which are also
   released in standalone form for other Python versions MAY include a
   module version number when included in the standard library, and
   SHOULD include a version number when packaged separately.

#. When a module (or package) includes a version number, the version
   SHOULD be available in the ``__version__`` attribute.

#. For modules which live inside a namespace package, the module
   SHOULD include the ``__version__`` attribute.  The namespace
   package itself SHOULD NOT include its own ``__version__``
   attribute.

#. The ``__version__`` attribute's value SHOULD be a string.

#. Module version numbers SHOULD conform to the normalized version
   format specified in PEP 386 [6]_.

#. Module version numbers SHOULD NOT contain version control system
   supplied revision numbers, or any other semantically different
   version numbers (e.g. underlying library version number).

#. The ``version`` attribute in a classic distutils ``setup.py``
   file, or the PEP 345 [7]_ ``Version`` metadata field SHOULD be
   derived from the ``__version__`` field, or vice versa.


Examples
========

Retrieving the version number from a third party package::

    >>> import bzrlib
    >>> bzrlib.__version__
    '2.3.0'

Retrieving the version number from a standard library package that isalso distributed as a standalone module::

    >>> import email
    >>> email.__version__
    '5.1.0'

Version numbers for namespace packages::

    >>> import flufl.i18n
    >>> import flufl.enum
    >>> import flufl.lock
    
    >>> print flufl.i18n.__version__
    1.0.4
    >>> print flufl.enum.__version__
    3.1
    >>> print flufl.lock.__version__
    2.1
    
    >>> import flufl
    >>> flufl.__version__
    Traceback (most recent call last):
      File "<stdin>", line 1, in <module>
    AttributeError: 'module' object has no attribute '__version__'
    >>>


Deriving
========

Module version numbers can appear in at least two places, andsometimes more.  For example, in accordance with this PEP, they areavailable programmatically on the module's ``__version__`` attribute.In a classic distutils ``setup.py`` file, the ``setup()`` functiontakes a ``version`` argument, while the distutils2 ``setup.cfg`` filehas a ``version`` key.  The version number must also get into the PEP345 metadata, preferably when the *sdist* archive is built.  It'sdesirable for module authors to only have to specify the versionnumber once, and have all the other uses derive from this singledefinition.

This could be done in any number of ways, a few of which are outlinedbelow.  These are included for illustrative purposes only and are notintended to be definitive, complete, or all-encompassing.  Otherapproaches are possible, and some included below may have limitationsthat prevent their use in some situations.

Let's say Elle adds this attribute to her module file ``elle.py``::

    __version__ = '3.1.1'


Classic distutils-----------------

In classic distutils, the simplest way to add the version string tothe ``setup()`` function in ``setup.py`` is to do something likethis::

    from elle import __version__
    setup(name='elle', version=__version__)

In the PEP author's experience however, this can fail in some cases,such as when the module uses automatic Python 3 conversion via the``2to3`` program (because ``setup.py`` is executed by Python 3 beforethe ``elle`` module has been converted).

In that case, it's not much more difficult to write a little code toparse the ``__version__`` from the file rather than importing it.Without providing too much detail, it's likely that modules such as``distutils2`` will provide a way to parse version strings from files.E.g.::

    from distutils2 import get_version
    setup(name='elle', version=get_version('elle.py'))


Distutils2----------

Because the distutils2 style ``setup.cfg`` is declarative, we can'trun any code to extract the ``__version__`` attribute, either viaimport or via parsing.

In consultation with the distutils-sig [9]_, two options areproposed.  Both entail containing the version number in a file, anddeclaring that file in the ``setup.cfg``.  When the entire contents ofthe file contains the version number, the ``version-file`` key will beused::

    [metadata]
    version-file: version.txt

When the version number is contained within a larger file, e.g. ofPython code, such that the file must be parsed to extract the version,the key ``version-from-file`` will be used::

    [metadata]
    version-from-file: elle.py

A parsing method similar to that described above will be performed onthe file named after the colon.  The exact recipe for doing this willbe discussed in the appropriate distutils2 development forum.

An alternative is to only define the version number in ``setup.cfg``and use the ``pkgutil`` module [8]_ to make it availableprogrammatically.  E.g. in ``elle.py``::

    from distutils2._backport import pkgutil
    __version__ = pkgutil.get_distribution('elle').metadata['version']


PEP 376 metadata
================

PEP 376 [10]_ defines a standard for static metadata, but doesn'tdescribe the process by which this metadata gets created.  It ishighly desirable for the derived version information to be placed intothe PEP 376 ``.dist-info`` metadata at build-time rather thaninstall-time.  This way, the metadata will be available forintrospection even when the code is not installed.


References
==========
[^1]: [Distutils2 documentation]:(http://distutils2.notmyidea.org/)

[^2]: [The Cheeseshop (Python Package Index)](http://pypi.python.org)

[^3]: http://docs.python.org/distutils/setupscript.html

[^4]: [PEP 8, Style Guide for Python Code](http://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0008)

[^5]: [sqlite3 module documentation](http://docs.python.org/library/sqlite3.html)

[^6]: [PEP 386, Changing the version comparison module in Distutils](http://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0386/)

[^7]: [PEP 345, Metadata for Python Software Packages 1.2](http://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0345/#version)

[^8]: [pkgutil - Package utilities](http://distutils2.notmyidea.org/library/pkgutil.html)

[^9]: [https://mail.python.org/pipermail/distutils-sig/2011-June/017862.html][^10]: [PEP 376, Database of Installed Python Distributions](http://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0376/)


Copyright
=========

This document has been placed in the public domain.